both these males are in the state known
as must once a year usually during the
monsoon cleanse in front of the ears
swell up
testosterone soars to 60 times its
normal level they become Restless
aggressive and ready to fight
[Music]
these huge bulls are in their prime
this is very different from a clash
between African elephants despite their
age and size neither of these giants has
tusks African elephants fight with their
tusks locked and their trunks draped
over them here the heads are down and
they hold their trunks in their mouths
perhaps to avoid stepping on them
but even with our tusks the aggression
is unmistakable
[Music]
elephants here once had tusks just as
their African cousins do
but centuries of hunting changed
everything
kill off the males with the biggest
ivory and only smaller tusked males will
get to breed and pass on their genes
with the contest decided the weaker my
own backs off
why most males go into must during the
monsoon is a mystery
females are receptive on and off all
year round these fights are more to do
with dominance and territory and sex